a scenario on extending a model with a new package (#48)
digital-asset/daml-katacoda: upgrading/extending-daml-models/1_package_ids.md

You've already learned how to extend a DAML model when you added the messaging feature to the mini
social network of the [Getting Started
Guide](https://daml.com/learn/getting-started/your-first-feature). 

There's a catch though with extending a DAML model like this. A [DAML
archive](https://docs.daml.com/daml/reference/packages.html) is build with the `daml build` command.
It contains the compiled artefact of your DAML code that will be deployed and run on the ledger.
The package ID of a DAML archive depends on the contents of the compiled DAML code. Changing the
code results in a different package ID. This means that contracts created with the old package will
be different from contracts created with the updated code and if you would just upload the new
package to your ledger and replace the old one, you couldn't execute any choices on contracts
anymore, that have been created with the original code.

While this behaviour presents a challenge to a ledger operator, it is a blessing for your data
integrity. It gives you a guarantee that the read and write rights to your data can not be changed
in hindsight, and stay exactly as you defined it.

Let's verify this.

> First, open `daml/User.daml`{{open}} in the IDE and **wait for it to load**. This is the familiar
> `User` module of the Getting Started Guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, **open the IDE and wait for it to load**. After that open the `daml/User.daml`{{open}} file. This is the familiar `User` module of the Getting Started Guide.
```
Really a minor thing: user needs to open the IDE and wait for it to load and then open the file.

You've already learned how to extend a DAML model when you added the messaging feature to the mini
social network of the [Getting Started
Guide](https://daml.com/learn/getting-started/your-first-feature). 

There's a catch though with extending a DAML model like this. The package ID of a DAML archive

> depends on the contents of the compiled DAML code. Changing the code results in a different package

Reviewer: Maybe briefly explain how packages work in DAML/what they are (as in [here](https://docs.daml.com/daml/reference/packages.html))

Author: done.

ID. This means that contracts created with the old package will be different from contracts created
with the updated code and if you would just upload the new package to your ledger and replace the
old one, you couldn't execute any choices on contracts anymore, that have been created with the
original code.

While this behaviour presents a challenge to a ledger operator, it is a blessing for your data
integrity. It gives you a guarantee that the read and write rights to your data can not be changed
in hindsight, and stay exactly as you defined it.

Let's verify this.

First, open `daml/User.daml`{{open}} in the IDE and **wait for it to load**. This is the familiar
`User` module of the Getting Started Guide.

In the terminal build the `create-daml-app` package with

```
daml build
```{{execute T1}}

Now inspect the package ID of the freshly package:

```
daml damlc inspect-dar .daml/dist/create-daml-app-0.1.0.dar
```{{execute T1}}

You will see a lengthy output listing the files and packages contained within your `create-daml-app`

> package. In the list of contained packages you see the main package:

Reviewer: Maybe also add the list of/summary of what other packages users will be seeing in the output as it's quite long.

Author: that would be a really long output, I'll add the first 5 or so.
